Alright, step three, the third step we're
gonna take on is forbidding implicit
entities in our project.
So I'm gonna close all my editors
here just to give us some more space,
that's great.
We're gonna go to our TS config,
and we're gonna say
no implicit any true, so
there's just like a negative there,
right, we're saying forbid
implicit entities and
let's just run your own type check.
Whoa, that's a lot 59 errors and 20 files.
We're gonna go to each of these 20 files.
No, we're not going to do that.
This is a great opportunity to demonstrate
how we can look at something like this and
say if it seems too big, it's more than
I want to take on in a poll request.
We're gonna make this change
locally like within one folder and
demonstrate how we can we can do that.
And, it becomes more approachable that,
you can do this across many days or
many weeks,
however long you want to take but
it lets us have a tighter TypeScript
config just in one part of our app.
So I think where I wanted to have
a start was the utils folder again,
principle of starting with
low level stuff first, right?
So in our utils folder,
I want you to create a new TS config.
This is gonna be very similar compared
to what we did when we had a TSconfig in
our tests folder, and
we're gonna start out the same way.
Not exclude,
extends this is a new feature by the way,
relatively modern TypeScript feature.
You can extend multiple things now.
So you could have a TS config that
just represents your strict type
checking stuff, and
then one that sort of represents,
let's say you have different module
formats that you're publishing,
you wanna build common JS and
then you wanna build ES native ES modules.
So it's sometimes useful to be able
to extend for multiple things,
they just sort of layer on top of
each other in order, so why not?
We'll use that syntax
even though we have one.
But this is another helpful thing for
large,
large projects that you can sort of
break your TS config up into pieces and
compiler options, just one thing.
We're gonna remember to turn it off
to have it no longer turned on in
a root-level TS config, comment that out.
One more line,
include this folder, all right?
So once you've done that,
we can run a command that will just
type check within this one folder.
Tsc -P for project,
src/utils so we're just saying
like just just type check
that one folder for me.
We're just trying to get that
happy with this more strict role.
Did I put this in the wrong place,
U-T-I-L-S, tsconfig.json.
Did I save it?
>> I think you're in utils
in your test folder.
>> [LAUGH] I am, thank you.
Oops, we'll put it in
the real utils folder.
This is why I create things on the CLI
[LAUGH] ,so that I don't get screwed up
like that.
All right, there we go,
that's a computer doing things.
All right, we got 11 errors and 4 files
way better than 59 errors across 20 files.
So great, so let's look at networking
like what's happening here.
We should really be in this mode
are focused on a specific task.
We're putting reasonable type
information in place if it's easy
to understand what a type
should be forgiving value.
Or if it seems complicated and
we don't know the answer yet,
we kick out and we say,
I'll put an explicit, any there.
That's totally fine in this step you're
just trying to get rid of the implicit
eddies.
So this, we got some types here.
There's my request info and my request
a knit, which should be optional.
And I can delete this stuff now,
it would compile if I left this in but
just for readability, I don't like
to leave both types on the code and
types in the comments.
They can get out of sync super easily and
cause many WTF, so okay that's networking.
And I'm just looking at these,
see this get Json get Json, so
those are probably things
I already just fixed.
Let's look at errors.ts,
error description I have isn't any here.
It looks like what I'm doing
is just like persisting it as.
Serializing it into a template string and
it has the word description in it.
So I'm torn here I could put in any that's
technically what's in the Jas doc types or
I could put a string.
I think I'm gonna put a string here.
It's a fairly small risks
to take then error,
let's look at this, stringify error value.
We're checking to see if
it's an instance of error.
So at the very least, it could be
an error but also something else,
because why would I have to check to
see if it's an instance of error,
if I knew it was an error coming in?
I'm gonna go ahead and say, let's see
if an unknown will work well here.
Can someone tell me what unknown is?
>> Is it generic?
>> Not quite.
>> It's exactly what it sounds like.
You don't know what it's gonna be,
so we have to check.
>> There you go it's kinda like any but
it's opaque,
we can't use it until we check
it out like until we inspect it
use a type card like this right here
it's unknown and down here, white.
There it's an error, so here it's unknown,
here it's an error, right?
Now we're in the else from the unknown.
So we know it's not an instance of error,
but TypeScript doesn't give us a good way
to say, look, it could be anything,
but not an instance of error.
Like there's no way to
describe that in TypeScript.
Cool, so maybe that worked out.
We'll have to see how
the tests work out here.
Here we've got error,
we'll use that type here.
And the return type is a string,
so I'll put that in as well.
I like explicit return
types on my function.
Okay, making some progress here.
Let's look at deferred,
just more JSDoc stuff I got to copy down.
It would be totally appropriate for some
of these if you just didn't have the JSDoc
information here,
you could just make it any.
You might choose to do that if I'm
moving a little fast for you here.
There's plenty of stuff,
plenty of extra steps,
right, this is like the path I gave you.
It's an 11 step process where eventually
you're gonna get bugged about explicit
NES and then you could come back here and
provide a more explicit type.
We're really just trying to get
a new compiler setting in there and
then squash the errors and
then you just trust that as we turn up the
strictness both in ESLint and TS config.
Anything that you sort of like
punted on where you just said,
they could put it any here.
Eventually you'll be
bugged to get rid of that.
And run this one more time.
So you were at, not quite api.ts.
What do we got going on here?
An interesting one,
here's another example of me using
like a more complicated type in JSDoc.
I've got like an object type
here with fields on it.
So I'm just gonna bring this in,
get data, I'm gonna bring this object in,
I'm gonna have to delete
all these asterisks.
Cool, so there's my options object.
Promise is yelling at me here,
I'll get to that in a second.
Let's look lower here,
there's an implicit any.
Okay, I'm gonna choose
to make these enemies
like I don't know what
JSON data is going to be,
I have to look pretty hard at this
promise, it's a very abstract thing.
This is like something built on top
of React use effect that goes and
fetches data for me and set some
state using a state senator that's
passed into it once the API calls
come back up It's not obvious,
looking at this,
what these types should be.
We're going for any,
it's fine at this stage.
Don't let the perfect be
the enemy of the good.
And then finally, promise takes a type
param here, and we're not giving it one.
What should we give this
promise as its type param?
>> I gave mine unknown.
>> Let's try an unknown,
hey, appears to work.then.
So, this is coming in, actually I can
delete these now, I bet, let's see.
Yep, JSON data is an unknown,
it's no longer an implicit any,
get rid of this one too.
Awesome, that's great, and
again, we have just been,
we've been working with type annotations,
function signatures.
We have not really altered the way code
works at all here, that's your goal.
It doesn't always turn out this clean, but
you wanna minimize the degree
that you have to change code.
We did change it a little bit.
You remember when we this used to be if,
like, AppContainer triple equals false,
that's the kind of thing where if
you do like 50 of those in one PR,
a couple of them will screw stuff up.
Because it feels like you're
just playing Whack a Mole.
And you can think of it as,
I'm making all of these things better,
all 50 of them, but somewhere, someone was
passing in a zero or an empty string and
they thought that it's better to
sort of be more careful about that.
And to try to add the type information,
and then later you can come in and
alter the behavior more carefully,
see where we're at?
Great, type checking passed.
So we got a couple choices here and
for the purpose of time,
I'm gonna have a bias towards one.
I'll just tell you what I would do next.
I would make a commit,
open a PR, get this merged in,
make I would take this tsconfig.json and
I would literally just drag
it into this data folder where we would
start to add more type information.
And I would just do another
PR straight from there.
It's a lot more of the same
stuff that we've been doing.
I'm not sure it's super valuable that
we all go through and do it together.
Now here you can see,
like this is an untyped thing.
It's an object that needs a type.
It's being used as
a dictionary apparently.
We could totally get in there and do that,
but it's just a lot of the same of
looking at the implementation
of the function, how's it used?
What's a safe type that I can put on it?
Let's not perturb the way the code works.
Let's just describe the types,
check it in, move on.
And you could ask you could add this
command to your CI or something you'd say
I wanna check this in and I also want the
bill to only pass If everything in this
folder continues to work this way,
it continues to pass with this tsconfig.
Why that's beneficial is somebody else
might be currently working on adding
something new to the utils folder,
and you can protect your progress by
checking in that tsconfig and
by making sure that this runs.
All right, it means that, okay,
they're gonna they're gonna
check their code in they're gonna open
up a PR like this is where depending on
how you have things set up it could
fail and everything's merged together.
But if you force people to
rebase before merging their PR,
they'd get in your change,
CI would run, it would fail.
And then they'd be, they'd say, it looks
like I have to change some things here,
I'm gonna make you commit and
we'll move on.
And if you want more practice, feel free
to go in and do a little more conversion,
right?
It just takes a little while longer.